During his mission retours, the Apostle Paul came to Corinth more than once.
On the first occasion, he stayed there for a year and six months, teaching the word of God.
In Paul's day, Corinth was a relatively new city.
The ancient Greek city had been destroyed by the Romans in 146 BCE.
About one hundred years later, Corinth was reestablished as a Roman colony by Julius Caesar
and soon became part of the province of Achaea.
By the time Paul arrived about 50 CE, Corinth had grown into a thriving commercial center.
The city's strategic location contributed to its growth and prosperity.
It was built at the western end of the Isthmus, or narrow strip of land,
that connects the Peloponnesian peninsula to the Greek mainland.
This made it possible for Corinth to control two nearby ports on both sides of the Isthmus,
Lacheum and Sanctuary.
So the city was a crossroads for merchants.
People in Corinth were exposed to travelers and ideas from all over the Roman Empire.
Paul would have been familiar with the city's Agara, or Marketplace.
It was lined with colonnades and public buildings.
Rose of shops sold all kinds of goods from the commonplace to the luxurious.
As tent makers, Paul, along with Aquila and Priscilla,
may have worked in one of the shops here or in another part of the city.
Residents of Corinth mingled in the Agara with travelers and merchants passing through,
making it an ideal location for Christians to preach.
The Agara also had an elevated platform called the Bima, or Judgment Seed.
From the Bima, magistrates addressed the city and announced Judgments.
This may have been where the Jews brought Paul before the Pro-Consul Galio.
Religion played an important part in the life of those who lived in Corinth.
The road leading up to the aqua Corinth, the steep rocky hill that towered over the city,
was lined with temples.
Religious structures were also built around the Agara.
These were dedicated to various deities, such as Fortune, Apollo, and Aphrodite.
Not far from the Agara, a paving stone can today be seen with an inscription
referring to a government official named Arastus.
Paul included greetings from Arastus, the city treasurer, in a letter he wrote while in Corinth.
Possibly the same Arastus referred to in this inscription.
No visitor to Corinth could fail to notice the city's massive theater.
It could hold more than 15,000 people.
When Paul wrote to the Corinthian Christians that he and fellow apostles had become a theatrical spectacle to the world,
he may have been thinking about how exposed the stage was to the spectator's gaze.
Paul fulfilled his mission in Corinth, helping to establish a congregation there,
and possibly also in nearby Sanctuary.